now.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Now
---

## What I’m doing now

I returned from the Patagonia to San Francisco a few days ago to work on an AI/drug discovery project.

I've had a bit of a culture shock coming back to San Francisco. Everyone speaks English and not Spanish here (although out of habit I speak in Spanish at the Mexican restaurants and supermarkets). Prices are substantially higher - I paid more in dollars for the CalTrain than I did in pesos for the trains in Argentina. Hitchhiking doesn't seem to be in style here like it is in the Patagonia. The streets are relatively clean and not lined with dog poop; likewise, the night sky is relatively foggy and not lined with stars. Cafes are lined with engineers with the latest Apple products and business people conducting business-y meetings, rather than people meeting for coffee. I saw a dishwasher, piano, and clothing drier for the first time in months. Stores close early here. There are grocery delivery services - here supermarkets are not within a blocks reach as they are in South America. The first world is dominated by a services economy, not agriculture/produce. Cars here are not only automatic transmission, but also many are electric. Prices seem to go up always in San Francisco as they do in Argentina - one is due to currency inflation and the other is due to overabundance of wealth.

The sun goes down at 5PM and not at 10PM. The winter in San Francisco feels exactly like the summer. The mountains have large amounts of houses rather than snow.

People in the Bay Area don't seem to instantly talk about their personal lives upon meeting them. In fact, people don't seem to be talking about very much at all. Instead of opening up about how they actually are doing, San Franciscans seem to talk about their jobs.

Similarly, it feels impossible to have a dissenting opinion here to the consensus. Most seem to speak as if they are brilliant yet it seems that very few of them are. It appears much of the magic of Silicon Valley has unfortunately, already left.

Of course, I'm as happy in San Francisco as I was in Argentina - it's just different. A few years ago Silicon Valley really called my attention, now I feel the lifestyle and interactions I'm more interested in lean more towards those I experienced in Argentina.

I'm especially looking to meet introspective, curious, and kind people on my journey. If you know or are one of these, reach out at ronnyb - at - jhu - dot - edu.

*This update was written Dec 14th, 2017.*

<!-- *This update was written Nov 20th, 2017. Previous posts can be found below:* -->

Commit message:

new about and now pages

now.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Now
---

## What I’m doing now

I'm currently in route back to Baltimore, where I'm staying for a little while to celebrate Passover with my family. I shifted into an advisory role with a project I was working on, and am currently thinking through next steps.

I had been in San Francisco the past few months, as I was flown out in mid-December from Argentinian Patagonia to interview with YC for an AI/drug discovery project. We didn't get into YC, and spent the last few months executing further on the project. We successfully managed to receive sizable term sheets from top VCs in the Bay Area; however at the critical juncture I realized continuing further was not the right next step for me. 

So, I declined all the investor money and moved into an advisory role with the company. I felt this was the most ethical and correct thing to do for a variety of reasons. Initially I was afraid to make this move, as things were moving and investors were excited to get more involved. I could not have been more wrong here - as I explained the reasoning to investors, the decision was met with admiration and full support.

San Francisco has a very different rhythm than what I had gotten accustomed to in Argentina. I learned a ton through the entire process of starting a company and securing investment. In particular, the respect I have for most founders and great VCs has increased, whereas the respect I have for most other VC investors has decreased substantially.

I continue to be fascinated with how the human mind learns languages. I now speak Portuguese fluently, and was accepted to teach it on iTalki. I've also been interacting with the Brazilian immigrant community in San Francisco, making friends and tutoring English for free. It's a lingering frustration of mine that most Americans seem to have no interest in helping immigrants integrate and learn the English language. In Argentina, it felt the opposite was true - everyone I encountered on the path wanted me to speak as well as possible, as fast as possible during my learning process.

I'm especially looking to meet introspective, curious, and kind people on my journey. If you know or are one of these, reach out at ronnyb - at - jhu - dot - edu.

*This update was written Mar 27th, 2018.*

<!-- *This update was written Nov 20th, 2017. Previous posts can be found below:* -->
